backend/src/utils/mappers/README.md, before:

# Entity Mappers

Centralized mapping utilities for transforming database entities to API response formats.

## Structure

Each entity has its own mapper file following the pattern: `{entity}.mapper.ts`

```
mappers/
├── index.ts          # Centralized exports
├── post.mapper.ts    # Post entity mappings
├── profile.mapper.ts # Profile entity mappings
├── metadata.mapper.ts # Metadata entity mappings
└── README.md         # This file
```

## Usage

Import mappers from the centralized index:

```typescript
import {
  mapPostToResponse,
  mapProfileToAPI,
  mapMetadataToAPI,
} from "../../utils/mappers/index.js";
```

## Adding a New Mapper

1. Create a new file: `{entity}.mapper.ts`
2. Export mapping functions following the naming pattern: `map{Entity}To{Target}`
3. Add export to `index.ts`

### Example: Comment Mapper

```typescript
// comment.mapper.ts
import { CommentRow } from "../supabase-helpers.js";

export interface CommentResponse {
  id: string;
  content: string;
  author: {
    id: string;
    username: string;
    avatarUrl?: string;
  };
  createdAt: string;
}

export function mapCommentToResponse(
  comment: CommentRow & { author?: any }
): CommentResponse {
  return {
    id: comment.id,
    content: comment.content,
    author: comment.author || {},
    createdAt: comment.created_at ?? new Date().toISOString(),
  };
}
```

Then add to `index.ts`:

```typescript
export * from "./comment.mapper.js";
```

## Mapping Patterns

### Snake_case to camelCase

Database uses `snake_case`, API uses `camelCase`:

- `first_name` → `firstName`
- `created_at` → `createdAt`

### Nested Relations

Supabase returns nested relations that need flattening:

- `{ metadata: { metadata: {...} } }` → `metadata: [...]`

### Conditional Fields

Some fields are only included conditionally:

- Private profile fields (phone, yearOfBirth) only for own profile

## Best Practices

1. **Type Safety**: Always use types from `supabase-helpers.ts`
2. **Null Safety**: Handle nullable fields with `??` operator
3. **Consistency**: Follow existing naming patterns
4. **Documentation**: Add JSDoc comments for complex mappings
5. **Testing**: Test mappers with real Supabase responses

Commit message:

feat: migrate API to snake_case naming convention
Complete migration of API field naming from camelCase to snake_case to align
with PostgreSQL/Supabase database schema conventions. This ensures consistency
between database, API, and client layers.

Backend Changes:
- Remove field mapping layers (profile.mapper, metadata.mapper)
- Update DTOs to use snake_case (CompleteProfileDto, UpdateProfileDto)
- Remove SignupDto and LoginDto (no longer used after two-step signup)
- Align UserProfile type with ProfileRow from database
- Extract auth utilities to dedicated auth-helpers module
- Update OpenAPI/Swagger schema to reflect snake_case fields
- Update TSOA generated routes

Frontend Changes:
- Update all API types to match snake_case backend format
- Migrate onboarding components to use snake_case field names
- Remove client-side profile mapping utilities
- Update React Query mutations for auth and profile operations
- Align Zod schemas with new API format
- Update app store to handle snake_case profile data

Breaking Changes:
- All API endpoints now use snake_case for request/response fields
- ProfileUpdateRequest fields changed: firstName → first_name, lastName → last_name, etc.
- CompleteProfileDto fields changed to match database schema
- UserProfile type now directly matches database ProfileRow structure

Migration Impact:
- Removes unnecessary abstraction layer between database and API
- Reduces complexity by eliminating field name transformations
- Improves maintainability with single source of truth (database schema)
- Ensures type safety across the full stack

backend/src/utils/mappers/README.md, after:

# Entity Mappers

Centralized mapping utilities for transforming database entities to API response formats.

## Structure

Each entity has its own mapper file following the pattern: `{entity}.mapper.ts`

```
mappers/
├── index.ts          # Centralized exports
├── post.mapper.ts    # Post entity mappings
├── metadata.mapper.ts # Metadata entity mappings
└── README.md         # This file
```

## Usage

Import mappers from the centralized index:

```typescript
import {
  mapPostToResponse,
  mapMetadataToAPI,
} from "../../utils/mappers/index.js";
```

## Adding a New Mapper

1. Create a new file: `{entity}.mapper.ts`
2. Export mapping functions following the naming pattern: `map{Entity}To{Target}`
3. Add export to `index.ts`

### Example: Comment Mapper

```typescript
// comment.mapper.ts
import { CommentRow } from "../supabase-helpers.js";

export interface CommentResponse {
  id: string;
  content: string;
  author: {
    id: string;
    username: string;
    avatarUrl?: string;
  };
  createdAt: string;
}

export function mapCommentToResponse(
  comment: CommentRow & { author?: any }
): CommentResponse {
  return {
    id: comment.id,
    content: comment.content,
    author: comment.author || {},
    createdAt: comment.created_at ?? new Date().toISOString(),
  };
}
```

Then add to `index.ts`:

```typescript
export * from "./comment.mapper.js";
```

## Mapping Patterns

### Note on Profile Mapping

Profile entities no longer require mapping since database types and API types both use `snake_case`. Profile data can be used directly from database queries.

### Snake_case to camelCase (for other entities)

Some entities may still require transformation:

- `created_at` → `createdAt` (if API uses camelCase)

### Nested Relations

Supabase returns nested relations that need flattening:

- `{ metadata: { metadata: {...} } }` → `metadata: [...]`

### Conditional Fields

Some fields are only included conditionally:

- Private profile fields (phone_number, year_of_birth) only for own profile (handled at service layer, not in mappers)

## Best Practices

1. **Type Safety**: Always use types from `supabase-helpers.ts`
2. **Null Safety**: Handle nullable fields with `??` operator
3. **Consistency**: Follow existing naming patterns
4. **Documentation**: Add JSDoc comments for complex mappings
5. **Testing**: Test mappers with real Supabase responses
